---
title: Documentaries May 2021
tags: [documentaries]
---

I watched a French documentary, called "[The Immortals](https://harbour-rights.com/detail.php?id=7888)", on RTHK TV on 13th May. It was about some animals that have powerful recover ability, or simply do not age, or can survive in the most extreme environment. Do you know lobster, a common seafood, is one of the animals that never age? Human is probably the biggest threat to those old giant lobsters, and so to many other animals as well.

I watched a French documentary on RTHK TV on 17th May, it was called "[Le génie des arbres](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt12323578/)". The French title means "The tree genius". Of course it was about trees. Trees are amazing creatures, they have senses like us. We know the fruits from the trees, we know how to make rubber or oil from trees, they are much more sophisticated than those. Trees do not have brains and do not move much, but in certain ways, they are quite similar to animals. Even scientists are still just starting to understand them.

I watched a documentary on RTHK TV on 18th May, it was called " [Secrets in our DNA](https://www.pbs.org/wgbh/nova/video/secrets-in-our-dna/)". Today in the era of information, DNA has become one of the most important data. We can know many things with one's DNA and it is almost impossible to change. It is our privacy, and probably our top secret. But unlike other information, such as our social ids, or even the pictures of our faces, our DNA is predictable. Our DNA is inherited from our parents. It has become a trend that people provide their important data to some companies, that are not much restricted from the governments, to try to get something out of those DNA. For example, do they have secret siblings? Do they have a higher risk to have cancer? Where did they ancestors come from? One of the problems is that your lack of privacy concept may lead your relatives, even the one you have never met before, arrested. The documentary showed some murder cases, including the Golden State Killer, solved by the genetic correlations. But if any terrorists or totalitarian regimes control those databases and companies in the future, how can we prevent them, to trace the people or even their relatives, they do not like?

I watched a documentary "[My Octopus Teacher](https://www.netflix.com/hk-en/title/81045007)" on Netflix on 26th May. It was the Oscar winner of Best Documentary Feature this year. The structure of the documentary was very simple, just monologue and video clips. The story however was so authentic, very touching. It was a story about a man and an wild octopus. Octopuses are such beautiful creatures, they are intelligent and so different from any other animals we familiar with. We know the shapes of human, cats and dogs, horses and cows, even fishes. But Octopuses do not have a shape. They can be like rocks, carols, fishes and sands, everything you can find under the sea. They don't have shape, they can be solid or liquid. In the documentary, the octopus developed a strong bond with the man. The man was a big part of her very limited life. She lived fast and died young. You can see how she grew and learned and survived and laid eggs and died. She was curious and playful. I feel like I have become a friend with that octopus as well. It was a very nice documentary for all ages. I highly recommend it.
